Updates 2.0 (#61)
The-Strategy-Unit/nhp_project_information: user_guide/NHP_model_summary.qmd

# What does the model NOT do? 

The model does **not** provide users with estimations of accommodation requirements such as the number of beds, rooms, wards, theatres etc. The task of converting the projected demand into capacity is the responsibility of the scheme.   

# How does the model generate its outputs? 

The model uses HES data and handles discrete hospital events rather than aggregate summaries of hospital activity. It currently uses the [baseline year 2019/20](/user_guide/FAQ.qmd#why-do-we-use-a-201920-baseline-year) and uses this as the basis to model future hospital activity up to the [horizon year](/user_guide/FAQ.qmd#which-year-should-be-selected-as-the-horizon-year) chosen by the scheme. Users provide input parameters, estimating the extent to which specific types of activity will increase or decrease. These assumptions are given in the form of 80% confidence intervals.  Other change factors are also taken into consideration, such as demographic and non-demographic growth. Some parameters can not be adjusted by the user because they have been determined nationally.  

> The model uses Monte Carlo simulations – it runs as many simulations as have been selected by the user, with the default being 256. In these simulations, values are sampled from each of the input parameters – these values are taken from anywhere within the confidence intervals the user has given. However, it assumes a normal distribution which means most simulations take values around the middle of the confidence interval. Each simulation provides an estimation of future hospital activity at the horizon year. 

Reviewer: "assumes normally distributed parameters" would be clearer perhaps?

Author: Resolved by https://github.com/The-Strategy-Unit/nhp_project_information/pull/61/commits/9da4173ea438e9e4c7fcdce99dce575065544a35

> The model uses Monte Carlo simulations – it runs as many simulations as have been selected by the user, with the default being 256. In these simulations, values are sampled from each of the input parameters – these values are taken from anywhere within the confidence intervals the user has given. However, it assumes a normal distribution which means most simulations take values around the middle of the confidence interval. Each simulation provides an estimation of future hospital activity at the horizon year. 

Reviewer: I would prefer "Each simulation provides an estimation of a possible future of hospital activity at the horizon year"

Author: Resolved by https://github.com/The-Strategy-Unit/nhp_project_information/pull/61/commits/9da4173ea438e9e4c7fcdce99dce575065544a35

> From model v2.0, it is the average (mean) of all the simulations which produces the principal projection – the most likely estimate of activity in the horizon year. It is the figures of the principal projection which will be the starting point for schemes converting this projected demand into capacity. The model outputs also inform the user of the potential variation in future activity, as displayed in bee swarm plots and S-curve charts. For many of the outputs, the values of the lower and upper confidence intervals are also available. As such, the outputs of the model reflect the uncertainty in the underpinning inputs, assumptions and estimates.  

Reviewer 2: I think beeswarm is usually one word (when referring to the plot as opposed to a literal swarm of bees) 🐝 

```suggestion
From model v2.0, it is the average (mean) of all the simulations which produces the principal projection – the most likely estimate of activity in the horizon year. It is the figures of the principal projection which will be the starting point for schemes converting this projected demand into capacity. The model outputs also inform the user of the potential variation in future activity, as displayed in beeswarm plots and S-curve charts. For many of the outputs, the values of the lower and upper confidence intervals are also available. As such, the outputs of the model reflect the uncertainty in the underpinning inputs, assumptions and estimates.  
```
